The Scriptures do not say specifically
that the Devil fathered any of the Nephilim.
But Jesus’ words at John 8:44 reveal the fact
that the Devil does indeed have children,
figuratively speaking.
He can’t create humans,
but he can influence people
to reflect his characteristics.
And that is what makes them his children.
Turn with me to John 8:44.
We’ll read the entire text of Jesus’ words.
Knowing that the religious leaders
were out to kill him,
Jesus’ words point out who their father is.
At John 8:44, Jesus said:
“You are from your father the Devil,
“and you wish to do
the desires of your father.
“That one was a murderer when he began,
“and he did not stand fast in the truth,
“because truth is not in him.
“When he speaks the lie,
“he speaks according to his own disposition,
because he is a liar
and the father of the lie.”
So according to the text,
at one time he was in the truth.
But he had free will,
and he toyed with wrong thinking
to such a degree
that it eroded anything that was good,
and nothing good was left within him.
And he made himself
into “the father of the lie”
—Satan the Devil.
Now, if we add Jesus’ words
with what John wrote at 1 John 3:10,
we can identify specific characteristics
of “the children of the Devil”
and “the children of [Jehovah] God.”
Let’s read that together at 1 John 3:10.
It states: “The children of God
“and the children of the Devil
“are evident by this fact:
“Whoever does not practice righteousness
“does not originate with God,
nor does the one
who does not love his brother.”
We must “practice righteousness,”
but it’s not self-righteousness.
We don’t establish
what is righteous for ourselves.
It’s Jehovah’s righteousness.
Isn’t that what Jesus said at Matthew 6:33:
‘Keep on seeking the Kingdom
and his righteousness’?
The standards that Jehovah God has set for us
—that is what righteousness is.
And one of the points
about being righteous and serving God
is that we are “no part of the world.”
And what’s interesting about that idea
is that there are many people in the world
who think they are righteous.
They set their own standards.
There are people who believe
they’re practicing righteousness
as they set about
to bring about social justice
or remove injustices
in the political, the commercial,
the economics of this world.
They want to see justice for all.
No more racial inequality
and so many other items
they follow through on
to remove them from this world scene today.
And they feel
that they truly are being righteous.
When it appears, though,
that one injustice is removed,
and it only appears that way in many cases,
isn’t there always another one that comes up?
Aren’t there a multitude
of injustices in this world?
It makes me think
about a longtime faithful servant of Jehovah
who was approached by a group of men
who criticized Jehovah’s Witnesses
because we don’t get involved
in working against the social injustices
of this world.
Our brother, who was known
for being straightforward and outspoken,
said that what these men were doing
in their fight against injustices
in the world
was battling against spiderwebs.
Injustices were like spiderwebs,
and they would fight and battle,
and they would demonstrate
to bring down a spiderweb.
But another spiderweb
was being woven, being spun,
or maybe the same one in many cases
just came up again.
And it just continues on and on that way.
And then he looked at the men, and he said:
“But we are going to get
“the spider, Satan the Devil.
“You’re after the webs, what he produces.
“You’ve got to go to the source
and see that the spider is eliminated.
“And it’s Jesus Christ
who is going to abyss Satan the Devil,
“the spider who’s spinning
all of these things to distract people
“from the real issue about God’s Kingdom
“and serving Jehovah wholeheartedly.
“That spider will be thrown into the abyss.
No more spiderwebs.”
Truly, the Devil’s lie to Eve
about becoming like God,
knowing good and evil,
has had far-reaching consequences
that affect people more than ever
right down to this day.
We see it
—the world’s attitude.
They’re independent.
‘You don’t need God.
‘We don’t need to be guided
by Scriptural principles—what the Bible says.
‘You decide for yourself
how you want to live.
‘There are no moral standards.
You fix your own standards.’
Isn’t that precisely what Satan told Eve?
‘You can be like God.
‘You decide what’s good, what’s bad,
and what’s right for you and not right.’
And they feel so sophisticated and so wise.
‘We can fix our problems.’
Oh, really?
We look at the world scene today.
Are they really fixing the problems?
What do we really see happening?
It’s out of control.
The entire world scene is out of control.
The world in its wisdom prefers the lie.
Even though they don’t recognize the liar,
they still prefer the lie
instead of recognizing
their need for Jehovah God.
And the outcome for the world
is stated for us at Jeremiah 8:9:
“The wise have been put to shame.
“They have become terrified
and [they] will be caught.
“Look!
They have rejected the word of Jehovah,
and what wisdom do they have?”
But, you know,
you might ask the question:
‘Why?
‘Why are people so determined
to go their own way?
What’s wrong with their thinking?’
There are various reasons,
but there is one that truly stands out.
And the apostle Paul spoke about it
at 2 Thessalonians 2:10.
And this is what Paul said in part.
He tells us that people will perish
“because they did not accept
“the love of the truth
in order that they might be saved.”
Yes, “the love of the truth.”
People really don’t love truth.
They want to make up their own truths,
which are lies.
They’re not truths.
We must accept the love of the truth.
And it’s really quite wonderful
that Jehovah has made the truth in such a way
that it appeals to our heart
as well as to our head.
Think about the time
when Jesus taught the truth
to his disciples who were walking
on their way to Emmaus.
Remember how they responded?
It’s at Luke 24:32.
They said:
“Were not our hearts burning
“. . . as he was speaking to us
on the road,
as he was fully opening up
the Scriptures to us.”
And I found a very interesting comment
in The Watchtower  on this verse.
It’s The Watchtower  of 1962,
April 15, page 227.
This is what it said:
“Only when we have real love for the truth
will we go through the experience
of burning hearts.”
Isn’t that fascinating?
Think about when your heart has burned
—when you’ve observed a drama,
when you’ve heard an encouraging talk,
when you sang a wonderful Kingdom song.
Think about the Hezekiah drama.
When we saw the angel spread his wings
while facing the Assyrian troops
and then devastation came,
didn’t your heart burn?
Or we think about when armed troops
were stealthily advancing
on our brothers in an open field,
and then in the opened-up heavens
we see Jesus on a white horse
with bow in hand
ready to take vengeance
on those who hate Jehovah.
That’s a reality foretold in Scripture.
That fires the heart.
And there are other things
that fire our heart
—when we hear beautiful songs
that are meaningful,
such as “Never Alone”
and “Give Me Courage”
and many others.
The heart that loves Jehovah
does indeed burn.
And this is not just emotion.
Our thinking ability
and our emotions work together
and motivate us to know and to feel
the power of the truth.
As The Watchtower  I quoted from declares:
‘Our life depends
on whether we have love for the truth.’
So love Jehovah.
Love our neighbor.
And, yes, we must love the truth.